Added Machine ID Jenkins Guide (#11091)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/guides/jenkins.mdx

---
title: Jenkins
description: Using Teleport Machine ID with Jenkins
---

Jenkins is a open source automation server that is frequently used to build
Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines.

In this guide, we will demonstrate how to migrate Jenkins workloads to

> Machine ID with minimal changes to your pipelines.

Reviewer: Maybe we could elaborate on what "migrating Jenkins workloads to Machine ID" means? I think we're talking about accessing remote hosts as actions within jobs rather than providing some alternative to Jenkins itself.

A few usage examples might be handy too, I think scp/sftp to upload logs / release artifacts / etc will be a common use case.

## Prerequisites

You will need the following tools to use Teleport with Jenkins.

> - [Teleport Enterprise](../../enterprise/introduction.mdx) or [Teleport Cloud](../../cloud/introduction.mdx) >= 9.0.0 

Reviewer 2: No machine ID in OSS?

- `ssh` OpenSSH tool

> - `Jenkins`

Reviewer: nit: Jenkins probably shouldn't be `code` formatted

> In addition, if you already have not done so, follow the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, if you have not already done so, follow the
```

[Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../../docs/pages/machine-id/getting-started.mdx)
to create a bot user and start Machine ID.

## Architecture

Before we begin, it should be noted that Jenkins is a tool that is notoriously
difficult to secure. Machine ID is one part of securing your infrastructure,
but it alone is not sufficient. Below we will provide some basic guidance which
can help improve the security posture of your Jenkins install.

> The simplest Jenkins deployments have the controller and agents run on the

Reviewer 2: Do we need to introduce what a controller and agent is?

Author: Wouldn't anyone that is coming into this guide already be reasonably familiar with Jenkins?

Reviewer 2: I mean I know what Jenkins is, and I've used lots of CI/CD platforms, but I'm not familiar with controllers and agents. I might land on this page because it's the closest thing we have for "using Machine ID in CI/CD" docs.

same host. This deployment model is simple to get started with, however any
compromise of the `jenkins` user within a single pipeline can lead to the
compromise of your entire CI/CD infrastructure.

A slightly more complex, but more secure, deployment is running your Jenkins
controllers and agents on different hosts and pinning workloads to specific
agents. This is a improvement over the simple deployment because you can limit
the blast radius of the compromise of a single pipeline to a subset of your
CI/CD infrastructure instead of all of your infrastructure.

We strongly encourage the use of the second deployment model whenever possible,

> with ephemeral hosts when possible. When using Machine ID with this model,

Reviewer: We might want to qualify "ephemeral hosts" a bit since we only really support them now via IAM auth and still don't have a good story for ephemeral on-prem use.

pipeline is compromised, and allow you to remotely audit and lock pipelines if
you detect malicious behavior.

<Figure align="left" bordered caption="Jenkins Deployments">
  ![Jenkins Deployments](../../img/machine-id/machine-id-jenkins.png)
</Figure>

## Step 1/2 Configure and start Machine ID

Machine ID allows you to use Linux ACLs to control access to certificates on
disk. You will use this to limit the access Jenkins has to the short-lived
certificates Machine ID issues.

In the example that follows, we'll work with the assumption you will be running
Machine ID as the Linux user `teleport` and Jenkins as the Linux user
`jenkins`. Create and initialize the directories you will need using the
`tbot init` command.

```code
$ tbot init \
    --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
    --bot-user=teleport \
    --owner=teleport:teleport \
    --reader-user=jenkins \
```

Next, you will use systemd to run Machine ID in the background of each
Jenkins worker.

First create a configuration file for Machine ID at `/etc/tbot.yaml`.

<Details scope={["cloud"]} scopeOnly={true}>
```yaml
auth_server: "example.teleport.sh:443"
onboarding:
  join_method: "token"

>   token: "00000000000000000000000000000000"

Reviewer: It might be good to clarify somewhere that we'll have different tokens (and for that matter, a completely separate bots) for each worker. I know it's alluded to in the previous step, but seemed easy to glance over IMO.

---

> title: Jenkins

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Using Teleport Machine ID with Jenkins
```
To mirror the Ansible guide

description: Using Teleport Machine ID with Jenkins
---

> Jenkins is a open source automation server that is frequently used to build

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Jenkins is an open source automation server that is frequently used to build
```

Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines.

In this guide, we will demonstrate how to migrate existing Jenkins pipelines
to utilize Machine ID with minimal changes.

## Prerequisites

You will need the following tools to use Teleport with Jenkins.

> - Teleport >= 9.0.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service version >= 9.0.0, deployed on your own infrastructure or managed via Teleport Cloud.
```

- `ssh` OpenSSH tool
- Jenkins

In addition, if you have not already done so, follow the

> [Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../../docs/pages/machine-id/getting-started.mdx)

Reviewer 3: This 404s

to create a bot user and start Machine ID.

## Architecture

Before we begin, it should be noted that Jenkins is a tool that is notoriously
difficult to secure. Machine ID is one part of securing your infrastructure,
but it alone is not sufficient. Below we will provide some basic guidance which
can help improve the security posture of your Jenkins install.

> The simplest Jenkins deployments have the controller and agents run on the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Single-host deployments:** The simplest Jenkins deployments have the controller and agents run on the
```
Suggested adding bold catchphrases for each deployment method to help readers parse this part of the docs quickly

same host. This deployment model is simple to get started with, however any
compromise of the `jenkins` user within a single pipeline can lead to the
compromise of your entire CI/CD infrastructure.

> A slightly more complex, but more secure, deployment is running your Jenkins

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Multihost deployments:** A slightly more complex, but more secure deployment is running your Jenkins
```

controllers and agents on different hosts and pinning workloads to specific
agents. This is a improvement over the simple deployment because you can limit
the blast radius of the compromise of a single pipeline to a subset of your
CI/CD infrastructure instead of all of your infrastructure.

We strongly encourage the use of the second deployment model whenever possible,
with ephemeral hosts and IAM joining when possible. When using Machine ID with

> this model, create and run Machine ID bots per-pipeline. This will allow you to

Reviewer 3: Is this one bot per pipeline?

> give each pipeline the minimal set of server access, reduce the blast radius if

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
give each pipeline the minimal scope for server access, reduce the blast radius if
```
or "minimal set of server access permissions"?

one pipeline is compromised, and allow you to remotely audit and lock pipelines
if you detect malicious behavior.

<Figure align="left" bordered caption="Jenkins Deployments">

>   ![Jenkins Deployments](../../img/machine-id/machine-id-jenkins.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ![Jenkins Deployments](../../../img/machine-id/machine-id-jenkins.png)
```

</Figure>

## Step 1/2 Configure and start Machine ID

Machine ID allows you to use Linux ACLs to control access to certificates on
disk. You will use this to limit the access Jenkins has to the short-lived
certificates Machine ID issues.

In the example that follows, we'll work with the assumption you will be running
Machine ID as the Linux user `teleport` and Jenkins as the Linux user
`jenkins`. Create and initialize the directories you will need using the
`tbot init` command.

```code
$ tbot init \
    --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id \
    --bot-user=teleport \
    --owner=teleport:teleport \

>     --reader-user=jenkins \

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    --reader-user=jenkins
```

```

Next, you need to start Machine ID in the background of each Jenkins worker.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Using systemd">
    <Details scope={["cloud"]} scopeOnly={true}>
      First create a configuration file for Machine ID at `/etc/tbot.yaml`.

      ```yaml
      auth_server: "example.teleport.sh:443"
      onboarding:
        join_method: "token"
        token: "00000000000000000000000000000000"
        ca_pins:
        - "sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111"
      storage:
        directory: /var/lib/teleport/bot
      destinations:
        - directory: /opt/machine-id
      ```
    </Details>

>     <Details scope={["oss","enterprise"]} scopeOnly={true}>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <Details scope={["oss","enterprise"]} scopeOnly={true}>
    First create a configuration file for Machine ID at `/etc/tbot.yaml`.
```

      ```yaml
      auth_server: "auth.example.com:3025"
      onboarding:
        join_method: "token"
        token: "00000000000000000000000000000000"
        ca_pins:
        - "sha256:1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111"
      storage:
        directory: /var/lib/teleport/bot
      destinations:
        - directory: /opt/machine-id
      ```
    </Details>

    Next, create a systemd.unit file at `/etc/systemd/system/machine-id.service`.

    ```systemd
    [Unit]
    Description=Teleport Machine ID Service
    After=network.target

    [Service]
    Type=simple
    User=teleport
    Group=teleport
    Restart=on-failure
    ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/tbot start -c /etc/tbot.yaml
    ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
    PIDFile=/run/machine-id.pid
    LimitNOFILE=8192

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target
    ```

    Finally, run the following commands to start Machine ID.

    ```code
    $ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    $ sudo systemctl start machine-id
    $ sudo systemctl status machine-id
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Kubernetes Sidecar">
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/2. Update and run Jenkins pipelines

> Using Machine ID within a Jenkins pipeline is now a one line change. For

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using Machine ID within a Jenkins pipeline is now a one-line change. For
```

---
title: Using Teleport Machine ID with Jenkins
description: Using Teleport Machine ID with Jenkins
---

Jenkins is an open source automation server that is frequently used to build
Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines.

In this guide, we will demonstrate how to migrate existing Jenkins pipelines to
utilize Machine ID with minimal changes.

## Prerequisites

You will need the following tools to use Teleport with Jenkins.

- The Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service version >= 9.0.0, deployed on
  your own infrastructure or managed via Teleport Cloud.
- `ssh` OpenSSH tool
- Jenkins

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `tctl` admin tool version >= (=teleport.version=)

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)
```

## Architecture

Before we begin, it should be noted that Jenkins is a tool that is notoriously
difficult to secure. Machine ID is one part of securing your infrastructure,
but it alone is not sufficient. Below we will provide some basic guidance which

> can help improve the security posture of your Jenkins install.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
can help improve the security posture of your Jenkins installation.
```
nit: I think this sounds a bit better

> **Single-host deployments:** The simplest Jenkins deployments have the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Single-host deployments

The simplest Jenkins deployments have the
```

I know I recommended bolded text here, but I should have previewed the results in my local dev server first. I think the text can still be broken up a bit more. I've suggested using H3s.

controller (process that stores configuration, plugins, UI) and agents (process
that executes tasks) run on the same host. This deployment model is simple to
get started with, however any compromise of the `jenkins` user within a single
pipeline can lead to the compromise of your entire CI/CD infrastructure.

> **Multihost deployments:** A slightly more complex, but more secure deployment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Multihost deployments

A slightly more complex, but more secure deployment
```

is running your Jenkins controllers and agents on different hosts and pinning
workloads to specific agents. This is a improvement over the simple deployment
because you can limit the blast radius of the compromise of a single pipeline
to a subset of your CI/CD infrastructure instead of all of your infrastructure.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### Best practices

```

We strongly encourage the use of the second deployment model whenever possible,
with ephemeral hosts and IAM joining when possible. When using Machine ID with
this model, create and run Machine ID bots per-host and pin particular
pipelines to a worker. This will allow you to give each pipeline the minimal
scope for server access, reduce the blast radius if one pipeline is
compromised, and allow you to remotely audit and lock pipelines if you detect
malicious behavior.

<Figure align="left" bordered caption="Jenkins Deployments">

>   ![Jenkins Deployments](../../../img/machine-id/machine-id-jenkins.png)

Reviewer 3: Is there more diagram design work that needs to be done here?

Author: I removed to diagram for now. @ardeche07 is working with design to get us a new diagram.

</Figure>

## Step 1/2 Configure and start Machine ID

First, determine which role(s) you would like to assign to Machine ID running
on Jenkins. You can run `tctl get roles` to inspect roles within Teleport and

> then `tctl` to create a bot user with the roles you want to assign to Machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
then `tctl bots add` to create a bot user with the roles you want to assign to Machine
```

ID. In the example below, you will create a bot user `jenkins` and assign this
bot user the `api-workers` role.

<Details scope={["cloud"]} scopeOnly={true}>
On your client machine, log in to Teleport using `tsh` before using `tctl`.

```code
$ tctl bots add jenkins --roles=api-workers
```
</Details>
<Details scope={["oss","enterprise"]} scopeOnly={true}>
Connect to the Teleport Auth Server and use `tctl` to examine what roles exist on
your system.

```code
$ tctl bots add jenkins --roles=api-workers
```
</Details>

> Machine ID allows you to use Linux ACLs to control access to certificates on

Reviewer 2: Should we write out _Access Control Lists (ACLs)_ on first use?
